# Definitions

<table>
	<tr>
		<td> Game </td>
		<td> The system described in this document. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> Game instance </td>
		<td> The state of the game when a level is loaded. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> Level </td>
		<td> The runtime definition of how a game instance begins and how it works; <br/>
		     the state where the player spends most of the time, or
		     the discrete 2-dimensional space that describes it. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> Asset </td>
		<td> A resource that can be loaded from a file in the game's folder. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> Mesh </td>
		<td> A list of 10-dimensional vertices that contain XYZ coordinates,
		     XYZ normals and RGBA colors. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> Tile </td>
		<td> A discrete 2-dimensional point that describes a position in a level. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> Region </td>
		<td> A rectangle containing a natural number of tiles. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> Chunk </td>
		<td> A square containing <code>N × N</code> squares, where <code>N</code> is
		     a number defined by the related level. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> World object </td>
		<td> A physical object, placed in a region. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> Snake / <br/> Snake head </td>
		<td> The entity controlled by the player, when a level is loaded. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> ARI </td>
		<td> <code>Asset Resource Identifier</code>, a string used to load assets. </td>
	</tr>
		<td> Player </td>
		<td> The end-user that intends to run the game. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> [Game] Developer </td>
		<td> An end-user that intends to create game assets or custom levels. </td>
	</tr> <tr>
		<td> [Project] Developer </td>
		<td> Anyone contributing to the project, editing main game assets or levels. </td>
	</tr>
</table>


# Functional Requirements

- `FR0`   - Game engine
- `FR000` - Game starts on the Main Menu
- `FR001` - The game transitions between "macro-frames" at a constant rate
- `FR002` - Macro-frame transitions are animated
- `FR003` - World objects have constant cyclic animations
- `FR004` - World objects have event-driven linear animations

<br/>

- `FR1`   - Levels and game instances
- `FR100` - Levels are stored as Amscript2 scripts
- `FR101` - Game instances can be stored on generated Amscript2 scripts
- `FR102` - Levels can be seamlessly confined to a repeated 2D region
- `FR102` - Levels can be bound to a non-rectangular region
- `FR103` - Levels can be infinite
- `FR105` - Levels can be procedurally generated
- `FR106` - Levels can be written by a game developer
- `FR107` - Each level has an objective

<br/>

- `FR2`   - Meshes
- `FR201` - Meshes are stored on binary files
- `FR202` - Meshes can be generated by the development toolkit

<br/>

- `FR3`   - World objects
- `FR300` - World objects are stored as Amscript2 scripts
- `FR301` - World objects have their own material, which determines how it looks
- `FR302` - World objects cannot be added to, or removed from, a game instance
- `FR303` - World objects can be disabled

<br/>

- `FR4`   - Assets
- `FR400` - Assets are primarily stored as files in the game directory
- `FR401` - Levels, stored game instances, meshes, world objects and materials are assets
- `FR402` - Assets are uniquely identified by an Asset Resource Identifier (ARI)

<br/>

- `FR5`   - Game logic
- `FR500` - The snake can be steered with the WASD control scheme
- `FR501` - World objects trigger events on collision
- `FR502` - Some objects decrease the player's health on collision
- `FR503` - When the player dies, they can restart the level or return to the main menu


# Non-Functional Requirements

### Development and dependencies

- `NFR00` - The development tools are embedded in one program
- `NFR01` - The development tools program can be compiled and used without OpenGL
- `NFR02` - The game uses the following libraries, interfaces, tools and languages:
  - `NFR03` - OpenGL 3
  - `NFR04` - GLEW
  - `NFR05` - GLFW
  - `NFR06` - Amscript2
- `NFR07` - The project development environment includes:
  - `NFR08` - GNU Compiler Collection
    - `NFR09` - G++
    - `NFR0A` - GNU Make
  - `NFR0B` - /bin/bash
  - `NFR0C` - UMLet

### Distribution

- `NFR0C` - The game can be run on Windows 10 x86-64
- `NFR0D` - The game doesn't require the user to install uncommon 3rd-party software
- `NFR0E` - The game will not be distributed commercially
- `NFR0F` - The project's source code and documentation will be available to the public
- `NFR10` - The project will allow contributions and forks
